{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg1250\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1045\deflangfe1045\themelang1045\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f34\fbidi \froman\fcharset1\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria Math;}
{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}
{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \froman\fcharset238\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f41\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\f40\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f42\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f43\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f44\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f45\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f46\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f47\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\flomajor\f31510\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\flomajor\f31509\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flomajor\f31511\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flomajor\f31512\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flomajor\f31513\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flomajor\f31514\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flomajor\f31515\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flomajor\f31516\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbmajor\f31520\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\fdbmajor\f31519\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbmajor\f31521\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbmajor\f31522\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbmajor\f31523\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbmajor\f31524\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbmajor\f31525\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbmajor\f31526\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhimajor\f31530\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Cambria;}{\fhimajor\f31529\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Cambria Cyr;}
{\fhimajor\f31531\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Cambria Greek;}{\fhimajor\f31532\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Cambria Tur;}{\fhimajor\f31535\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Cambria Baltic;}
{\fhimajor\f31536\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Cambria (Vietnamese);}{\fbimajor\f31540\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\fbimajor\f31539\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbimajor\f31541\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbimajor\f31542\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbimajor\f31543\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbimajor\f31544\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbimajor\f31545\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbimajor\f31546\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}
{\flominor\f31550\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31549\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\flominor\f31551\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\flominor\f31552\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\flominor\f31553\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\flominor\f31554\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\flominor\f31555\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\flominor\f31556\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fdbminor\f31560\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}
{\fdbminor\f31559\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\fdbminor\f31561\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fdbminor\f31562\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}
{\fdbminor\f31563\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\fdbminor\f31564\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fdbminor\f31565\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}
{\fdbminor\f31566\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\fhiminor\f31570\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Calibri;}{\fhiminor\f31569\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Calibri Cyr;}
{\fhiminor\f31571\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Calibri Greek;}{\fhiminor\f31572\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Calibri Tur;}{\fhiminor\f31575\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Calibri Baltic;}
{\fhiminor\f31576\fbidi \fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Calibri (Vietnamese);}{\fbiminor\f31580\fbidi \froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman;}{\fbiminor\f31579\fbidi \froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\fbiminor\f31581\fbidi \froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\fbiminor\f31582\fbidi \froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\fbiminor\f31583\fbidi \froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\fbiminor\f31584\fbidi \froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\fbiminor\f31585\fbidi \froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\fbiminor\f31586\fbidi \froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\*\defchp }{\*\defpap \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1045 \snext0 \sqformat \spriority0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden \spriority0 
Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1045\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1045\langfenp1045 \snext11 \ssemihidden \sunhideused Normal Table;}}{\*\listtable
{\list\listtemplateid-200617768\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc3\levelnfcn3\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat14\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent360{\leveltext\'03\'00) ;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 
\b\i0\f0\fs28\ulnone\fbias0\hres0\chhres0 \fi-360\li360\lin360 }{\listname ;}\listid369301927}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid369301927\listoverridecount0\ls1}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid3228609}{\mmathPr\mmathFont34\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0
\mdispDef1\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mdefJc1\mwrapIndent1440\mintLim0\mnaryLim1}{\info{\title The Book of Mystic Wisdom}{\author Paul Vaden}{\operator Pawe\'b3 Czoppa}{\creatim\yr2011\mo6\dy8\hr12\min36}{\revtim\yr2011\mo6\dy8\hr12\min36}{\version2}{\edmins1}
{\nofpages28}{\nofwords16348}{\nofchars77326}{\*\company Origin Systems}{\nofcharsws93488}{\vern32771}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1800\margr1800\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont1\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata0\grfdocevents0\validatexml1\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors1\lytprtmet\formshade\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120
\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow1\dgvshow0\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale165\viewzk2\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\bdrrlswsix\nolnhtadjtbl\oldas\rsidroot3228609 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 2450}\ilfomacatclnup0\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect
\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang 
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar
\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1045 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs40\insrsid3228609 The Book of Mystic Wisdom}{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs40\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 as told by Philpop the Weary,
\par magician to the court of his most
\par sovereign Lord British.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li720\ri1440\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin1440\lin720\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid3228609 
Know ye, 0 seeker of the mystic wisdoms, that the ways of magic are diverse and strange.  There exists the need for utmost concentration and
 the harvesting of things magical in order that ye may harness  the powers of the universe. Many are the eons of wisdom contained in these pages which I write for the benefit of my pupils, yet still there is much to learn.
\par 
\par \tab 
All magic is accomplished by the use of means both human and of nature, for true magic, is but the melding of human will and natural force.  Without the human voice to utter the chant, no spell may be cast. Yet without the proper natural catalyst, no spe
ll may be effective.  Thus magic is twofold, a balance struck between nature and humanity. Let us examine both aspects here, beginning with those natural substances, known as Reagents, that lend power to the words of the spellcaster.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Sulphurous Ash}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 - Sulphur is the substance found in nature that is most useful in the generation of fire. It is the color of saffron and, when burned, gives off an odor indicative of its great mystic strength.  Yet its true power is to be found in the second burning - t
hat is, in the use of the ashen residue 
of Sulphur that has been burned in a crucible fashioned from the skull of a Balron. Sulphurous Ash is not an uncommon substance, having been a staple of the Wizards profession through the ages. It may be purchased from any reputable purveyor of magical go
ods and is useful in the casting of Energy Fields and Magic Missiles, as well as in spells requiring a quick burst of light or a sustained glow.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Ginseng -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Long praised for its strength giving and medicinal properties, the root of the Ginseng plant is imme
diately recognizable for its forked shape, and to those initiated in the mystic ways, by its overpowering rose-colored aura.  It has been used for centuries by peasants who chew it or brew tea from a powdered preparation of the root in order to gain stren
gth and stamina as they toil in the fields.  While commonly found throughout Britannia, the Ginseng used as a component in the casting of spells is generally black in color and found only on the slopes of the northern mountains.  It may be purchased in vi
rtually any shop that sells magical goods, and is most useful in spells of a healing or narcotic nature, such as Cure or Sleep enchantments.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Garlic -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Even the most common of nature's gifts to our people have magical properties as can be witnessed by the power of Garlic. This pungent bulb is found in every garden in the lands of Britannia, and no stew or roast would be complete without its sharp flavor
. Its aromatic nature makes Garlic a powerful reagent in the casting of magical spells, and it is used in all spells of the warding variety - be they the warding off of common and magical sickness or the repelling of beings once dead.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Spider Silk -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The miracle of Spider Silk lies in its tensile strength. Imagine, if you will, a grown man relying on a strand of catgut to hold his weight all the days of his life. A spider relies on the finest of threads to do just that, and its silk never fails it. W
e should praise the first wizardling who realized the mystic secret of Spider Silk, for it is to him or her that we
 owe the knowledge of binding and restraining spells. The silk of the deadly Albino Ghoul spider - both the miniature  and giant varieties - has been used by adepts through the years in rites of magic. The spider farms of the south produce perhaps a hundr
ed pounds of the substance year and sell it to the merchants of magic, where it is made available to all who ply our trade. It is said that each year one worker dies the horrible death incurred by the bite of the Albino Ghoul spider to ensure the potency 
of the silk, although never has this deliberately been made to happen.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Blood Moss -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 is the bane of farmers and the boon of magicians. It is a deep red fungus that attacks the crops of those who raise grain, yet it is a vital component in the casting of spells. An oddity to those who spend their lives observing the growth of that which i
s not animal in nature -for it behaves like no other plant or mushroom - Blood Moss grows only in the driest of times, when all around it is perishing from drought. It cannot
 survive the absence of direct sunlight, and thus passes from the earth each night, only to return when the sun blazes mercilessly upon the land. Blood Moss seems feed only in ripening grain - it can lay waste to an acre of corn in a single day and vanish
 without a trace as night falls, leaving naught but fruitless stalks swaying in the cool, night breeze.  The magic of Blood Moss is thought to reside in its fleeting nature, for it is used in the spells of movement -from the simplest levitation to making 
th
e very earth tremble.  As harvest time comes each year, the merchants send runners to wait by the fields and gather the Blood Moss.  Farmers consider these runners unlucky and try to chase them from their fields, but enough show persistence to ensure thei
r masters a plentiful supply of Blood Moss to sell. 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Black Pearl - }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The Black Pearl is the most highly prized of all the pearls. Well-formed ones command a price from jewelers that would bankrupt a score of wizards.  Yet Black Pearls are vital in the casti
ng of spells that are hurled from the mage's person and must travel to a final destination. Fortunately for our profession, even rarer than a normal Black Pearl is one that is perfectly shaped.  Most are lopsided and lack symmetry - the very quality that 
makes the jeweler desire them so highly. This ensures a ready supply for the thaumaturge - the weaver of magic. It is said that, unlike the ordinary pearl which is formed inside an oyster when it seeks to protect itself from a piece of sand or grit, the B
lack Pearl only forms when the seed of the great pearl is yet another pearl of much smaller size cast adrift by the death of another oyster.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Nightshade -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Not to be confused with the rank-smelling plant of the same name, the Nightshade used in the mystic arts is an extremely rare mushroom that is only found in the deepest, most remote forests. It is said to be quite venomous to the touch of all save those 
present at its harvest, thus it is never sold in shops and is among the scarcest of magical reagents.  To
 obtain it, one must seek in the deepest forest on the blackest of nights when not even a moonbeam illuminates a single blade of grass.  I know not of the precise locations where this mystic fungus can be found, but there are rumored to be those in the la
nds of Britannia that know this secret.  Its chief magical properties are connected with the use of poison and the creation of illusions so real that they can lay the mightiest warrior to the ground. So rare is the Nightshade that it is primarily used in 
the creation Of only the most potent of magics. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Mandrake Root}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 - The root of the poisonous Mandrake plant is instantly recognizable by its human shape and its crimson color. It is said that the sap runs blood-red when the plant is cut down in order to harvest the root.  Long prized for its narcotic and purging effec
ts when consumed in minute portions, the Mandrake Root is the most powerful known substance in the weaving of magical spells that give new shape to very world around us.  The variety of Mandrake R
oot used in the mystic arts is found only in marshy terrain, where the root can thrust deeply into the earth. The more earth that must be moved to retrieve the Mandrake Root, the more potent its effect in the magic of the finder. Many years ago, when our 
people were but scattered tribes of nomads, the Mandrake was plentiful. As our people have tamed the land, however, and the practice of the mystic arts has become refined, the Mandrake has all but vanished from the face of the land we now call Britannia. 
It is never seen in the shops of the towns and castles, and hardly even sold privately if found.  Many of our profession have devoted lifetimes to the search for Mandrake Root without ever coming into possession of a single piece of it. 
\par 
\par 
\par These then are the eight mystic reagents used in the weaving of enchantments.  Some are readily available, while others are costly or must be hunted and harvested by the mage that intends to use them. Guard well your supply of these magical components for
 without them there
 can be no magic.  Use them wisely, as ye must use the forces that they unleash.  Remember that Magic is to be used only for the cause of righteousness and for the greater good.  Should you use the mystic arts for personal gain or vengeance, be prepared f
or the desertion of your powers.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Awaken -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Should you or any of your followers ever be so unfortunate as to come under the influence of a magically induced slumber, the use of a Spell of Awakening will often alleviate the condition. It is a simple spell whi
ch may be cast by the beginning student of the mystic arts with little effort or cost. It requires the use of Ginseng for its healing qualities and Garlic in order to ward off the coming of sleep until the victims body has returned to its normal cycle of 
wakefulness and rest.  Blend the two reagents carefully and apply the mixture to the brow of your sleeping companion and chant "levate" loudly.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Blink -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Many are the occasions that the thaumaturge needs to be elsewhere in very short order and finds that nei
ther horse nor ship nor any other conventional form of travel is of sufficient promptness for the situation.  Magical means of travel must then be used, of which the Blink spell is the most common. This spell disassembles the mage and companions and reass
embles them at a spot many leagues distant in any chosen direction.  There are means of travel that cover far greater distances than the Blink, but they are far more costly and have other limitations which we shall examine later in this tome. The Blink ca
n only move the party distances perceptible to the mind of a common person.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The components needed for the casting of a Blink spell are Spider Silk and Blood Moss.  The binding powers of the Spider Silk prevent the essence of the travelers from being scattered during transit, while the Blood Moss aids in the movement from one loca
tion to the next.  Equal quantities of each reagent ensure the proper working of the enchantment.  The concentration required for Blinking is such that the spellcaster will most certainly fell the effects, but not be left exhausted.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Cure -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Venomous creatures abound throughout the lands of Britannia.  Rarely are they evil, nature having provided them with their sting as a means of defense against larger predators, but without proper attention wounds can fester and lead to the death of a vic
tim.  Furthermore, evil mages may cast noxious, poisonous energy fields during battle or erect such barriers to prevent the virtuous from reaching their caches or sanctuaries.  Fortunately, the great 
wizard Jaanth Nor devised a countering magic for the effects of all venom and recorded his findings for future generations to use.  The Cure spell is effected by the use of a mixture of Garlic and Ginseng and the calling of the victim's name to soothe env
enomed soul.  The curative powers of the Ginseng nullify the effects of the poison in the victim's system, while the use of Garlic wards off the return of any virulent residues that may lie dormant in the blood. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Dispel -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  One of the staples of the wizard's
 profession is the use of energy fields. We shall discuss the casting of such fields shortly, but first let us examine the means of dismantling them when they are encountered. Although there are various forms of such fields, they are all created with a si
milar magic and thus may be Dispelled with a single spell. The Dispel enchantment is one of moderate difficulty, far more exhausting than the creation of energy fields. Often touching the field may prove disastrous, so the enchantment must be cast from af
ar
 and thus required the use of the precious Black Pearl needed in all projectile spells.  Furthermore, Sulphurous Ash is needed to provide the flash of power that beings the dissolution of the forces holding the field together. Finally, the warding powers 
of Garlic are also employed to prevent the forces from reassembling at the spot where they were previously concentrated. To effect the spell, speak backwards the color of the type of field encountered.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Energy Field -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  There are four types of Energy Fields k
nown to the practitioner of the mystic arts: Sleep, Poison, Fire, and lightning. Their effects are varied, but the magic used to erect them is the same in each instance. Any person attempting to pass through an Energy Field will run the risk of either fal
ling asleep or being poisoned in the case of the first two types; if the field is of Fire then their flesh shall burn as they pass through and they shall feel much pain and anguish; while the field composed of  Lightning is impenetrable. The casting of En
er
gy Fields is not difficult and requires only a small exertion on the part of the spellcaster, but the fields are only effective in enclosed areas such as subterranean passages and inside of rooms.  The reagents necessary in the casting of these Energy Fie
lds are Sulphurous Ash for the burst of creation, Spider Silk for the binding of forces to a single spot, and Black Pearl for the launching of the spell to a spot away from he who works the magic. It would be a grave error indeed to cast such a spell with
out the latter component for you would find yourself in the midst of the field!
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Fireball -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 When beset upon by evil, the spellcaster has many offensive tools at his or her disposal. We have discussed some of the indirect magics such as Energy Fields, but there are times when more direct action is required. There is a class of missile spells for
 such occasions, of which the Fireball spell is the intermediate one.  All such spells call for the use of the precious Black Pearl for its power in the launching of pr
ojectiles.  In the case of the Fireball, Sulphurous Ash is also called for in equal proportion, for its powers of fire-flash are integral to the creation of flaming missiles. Speak the name of your enemy when the spell is cast and your aim shall be unerri
ng and your enemy will be devastated by the flames of the magical fires.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Gate Travel -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 In the repertoire of teleportation enchantments, Gate Travel is by far the most powerful. This is because it not only utilizes the reagents and chants of most magics, bu
t also the power of the gates of the moons that control the very oceans and tides. The moongates are located throughout Britannia, and appear only at certain phases of the twin moons Trammel and Felucca. To cast the spell of Gate Travel, one must speak th
e name of the moons as the reagents are stirred. As the enchantment takes effect, the spellcaster and any companions will be instantly carried to the location of the desired moongate.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 It has been a long-standing tradition among the practitioners of the myst
ic arts to zealously guard the secret of the components of the Gate Travel spell. It is said that revealing these reagents will seal the use of the gates to the one who divulged the key. Of course, none have dared to speak of them for fear of losing one o
f the most powerful and exhausting spells in the lore of enchantment.  This writer is no exception to this belief.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Heal -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  0ne of the cornerstones of the good and true path of the wizard is the use of enchantment for beneficial ends.  We have discussed the 
Cure spell which renders venom as harmless as the purest of well water, but the most common form of injury is the physical wound rather than the internal disruption brought on by poison.  Swords and talons do not discriminate and the tools of justice are 
oft used for unjust purposes. When you or your companions have suffered physical injury that hath rent or seared the flesh, the Heal spell is invaluable.  Mix similar quantities of the healing essence of Ginseng with integrating strength of Spider Silk an
d apply it to the wound. Speak the name of the victim and the flesh will be hastened along the road to wholeness.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Iceball -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Once again, the invaluable Black Pearl is the key to the casting of the missile spells, of which the Iceball is the second most potent in the mage's arsenal. Unlike the previously discussed Fireball spell, the Iceball requires only the use of Mandrake Ro
ot in conjunction with the Black Pearl. The necromantic Mandrake will bring the chill of the grave upon your enemy and the very blood o
f the victim will freeze as  if it were midwinter. Ice is heavy and the toll of casting this spell is equally weighty.  All but the sturdiest of our profession will needs take rest after casting but a pair of these potent enchantments.  Remember to speak 
the name of your intended victim as you cast the reagents aloft, lest your efforts be for naught.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Jinx -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  There are but two enchantments more powerful and difficult than the Jinx spell, and but one of similar potency.  When faced with a closely packed horde
 of enemies, mix together equal quantities  of Black Pearl, deadly Nightshade, and the crimson Mandrake Root to cast at your opponents.  Call to their attention the vulnerability of their backs and weave the magic.  They shall turn and smite each other as
 if each was alone in a crowd of mortal foes. The Black Pearl shall carry your spell to their very midst, while the hallucinatory might of the Nightshade will confound them beyond the boundaries of common sense.  Mandrake Root lends the power of convictio
n 
to their misconceptions.  The duration of the enchantment is varied, but throughout its course the spellcaster will be reminded of its potency by the presence of a glowing "J". Be warned, however, that the casting of the Jinx spell requires great exertion
.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Kill - }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The Kill spell is the most powerful of the missile enchantments. It is the favorite of evil wizards and its use is prohibited by most teachers of the mystic arts.  Nevertheless, when faced with a foe of singular strength and a truly evil nature, t
he wise magician will prepare a mixture of the highly toxic Nightshade and mercurial Black Pearl and speak the True-name of the enemy while casting the reagents toward the foe.  As the last syllable of the chant fades, all of the target's vital organs sha
ll cease to function for the space of seven heartbeats.  This is usually fatal, although some beings of exceptionally hardy constitution will survive a single Kill spell. The enchantment may be woven several times, but tales a fierce toll on the energy an
d concentration of the caster. It is easier to Dispel a field of vibrant energy than it is to stop the functioning of a living being.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Light -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The enchantment of Light is a trivial one, often the very first spell acquired by the budding sorcerer. It requires but a pinch of Sulphurous Ash, which is applied to the end of a staff and gently blown upon until it begins to glow with a soft yellow lig
ht. The spellcaster must concentrate briefly on the image of a candle and expend a slight amount of energy to start t
he magical glow. From then on it will burn softly until the reagent is consumed, lighting the underground passages where the thaumaturge treads. There are two principal advantages to the use of Light spells in place of ordinary torches. They are unaffecte
d by all but magical winds or breezes; and they do not smoke and cause one's eyes to smart.  Many a warrior has suffered grievously because his eyes were shut by the sting of a wealth of tears.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Magic Missile -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  There are generally very few if any spells tha
t are learned early in the practice of wizardry which are both useful and eagerly sought after by those dabbling in the mystic arts.  The beginning thaumaturge almost always yearns for spells that devastate or create startling effects. The weaving of weat
her or the mastery of short vertical teleportations do not impress onlookers.  The one simple spell that does truly inspire awe at little expense to the spellcaster is the Magic Missile. It requires the use of two parts of Sulphurous Ash to one part of Bl
ac
k Pearl in the casting, and it will cause a tremendous bright flash of blue light to strike an enemy.  While not visibly marked, the enemy will sustain a fair amount of internal damage, said by the cynical to be brought about by fright more than by power.
 The Magic Missile is a useful enchantment in battle, but it is more spectacular than effective and will not deter most enemies larger than the spellcaster who wields it.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Negate -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  When faced with a greater or more telling magic than one's own, the practiti
oner of the mystic arts may decide it best for all involved to suspend everyone's use of thaumaturgy for a short time. At this time one should invoke the powers of the Negate spell by mixing Garlic with its warding characteristics together with the exotic
 Mandrake ripe with mystic potency. To this blend add but an equal amount of Sulphurous Ash to provide the spark of fusion and speak your own name backwards. All magic shall instantly cease save the enchantment of Negation itself, which is manifested by t
he vision of a glowing "N" hovering before your eyes. he Negate spell will last only a brief time, which should be used for either the annihilation of your enemies or for the judicious removal of your presence from the troubled spot.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Open -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 There was once a time when all beings were fair and just. The principal vessel used for the transport of one's worldly possessions in these times was the wooden chest, which is still the popular means.  But since the coming of the evil ones and their las
ting influence on 
the inhabitants of our fair land, the practice of placing obnoxious and sometimes lethal traps on the locks of chests has become quite commonplace. Virtually all folk use such devices, even the denizens of the underworld who guard naught but ill-gotten we
alth.  To bypass these sinister mechanisms the thaumaturge need but utter the chant "Appar Unem" and sprinkle a mix of Sulphurous Ash and Blood Moss on the offending lock. The flash of the Sulphurous Ash powers the movement potential of the Blood Moss and
 the lock will open itself safely, leaving the contents of the chest at the disposal of the spellcaster.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Protection -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 There are times during the heat of battle when one finds the best form of offense to be naught but a good defense. When hard-pressed by fierce antagonists, the wise magician will mix together the reagents Sulphurous Ash, Ginseng, and Garlic and invoke th
e spell of Protection. The wholesome qualities of the Ginseng, together with the repellent strength of the Garlic, serve to shield the wizard
 and all companions from the onslaught of their enemies.  Such Protection is not always effective, but may be of great use. Sulphurous Ash provides the mystic fire that fuels the incantation, and also serves to startle one's opponents with an initial flas
h as the spell begins to function. Protection is not a simple spell, but neither is it an exceptionally strenuous spell to cast. Its duration is short, and during the course of its shielding the mage will be reminded of its effects by a glowing "P" hoveri
ng before his or her eyes.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Quickness -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The spell of Quickness is one of the most unpredictable yet potent spells in the wizards collection of enchantments, and one of the most telling on his or her companions.  When cast during battle, the Quickness spell will heighten the natural dexterity o
f one's fellows to such a degree that they will move with twice their normal agility - at times they will be able to land two blows against their foes instead of the customary single strike during a round combat.  The pr
ice is age, for the recipients of the extra speed incurred by the use of Quickness will age briefly while under the sway of the enchantment...yet most feel that an occasional gray hair is but a small price to pay for the advantage of dealing twice the num
ber of blows that one might receive. The reagents for the Quickness spell are fiery  Sulphurous Ash, Ginseng, and volatile Blood Moss.  The Blood Moss portion is double the others, for movement is the critical aspect of the spell. The Sulphurous Ash lends
 t
he flashes of energy needed by the beneficiaries of the enchantment, while the healing powers of Ginseng prevent them from aging so rapidly as to become gray-beards after a single encounter.  Throughout the course of the Quickness spell, the spellcaster w
ill be reminded of its effects by the vision of a bright, glowing "Q".
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Resurrect -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Many are the monsters and terrors that dwell beneath the surface or in the forests and marshes of Britannia.  Even groups of most valiant and fierce warriors are subject to 
losses too tragic to bear. If a companion is slain by an enemy, all is not lost in the presence of the most accomplished of mages. There exists the means to bring back a companion from the land of the dead - not as an unholy once-dead being - but as a liv
ing, breathing creature of flesh and blood restored to life, albeit in an extremely weakened condition. Each wizard must needs determine the components of this enchantment that work best u4th their own magic, for the combination is said to be unique to ea
ch
 spellcaster. What is known about weaving this the most potent of all enchantments is that it requires the spellcaster to scatter the reagents to cover the victim's body, white calling out the name of the slain companion in a voice of thunder. This magic 
is extraordinarily taxing, and rare is the mage who can continue to weave spells without rest once this enchantment has been successful cast.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Sleep -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  There are moments in the lives of every practitioner of the mystic arts where discretion is truly the bett
er part of valor. Not all foes are truly evil and deserving of annihilation - verily, some are but beasts of the field seeking provender and are entitled to life as much as you or I. Yet, unchecked these creatures pose as great a threat to one as a score 
of rabid Orcs.  It is in such situations that the wise thaumaturge weaves a Sleep spell and leaves his opposition in deep slumber whilst vacating the current location.  The Sleep spell is truly a serious enchantment that requires a fair amount of mental e
ne
rgy to cast, but it is not of such import as to leave the Spellcaster breathless or exhausted. To send your foes to land of slumber, mix a double portion of Spider Silk with some Ginseng and chant "Duerme" as you sprinkle the reagents into the air.  Fear 
not the distance between you and the intended victims, for the binding power of the Spider Silk  will enfold them from afar, while the healing Ginseng will gently wrap them in deep sleep.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Tremor -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  The Tremor spell is a very potent magic indeed. Few spells 
are as exhausting and none save Resurrection have a more striking or dramatic effect. Carefully blend portions of Sulphurous Ash with Blood Moss and Mandrake Root and cast it at the feet of your opponents whilst shouting as loudly as possible. The volatil
e Sulphurous Ash shall furnish the flash of power to the movement potential of the Blood Moss and the Mandrake Root will lend raw necromantic force to the spell. The very earth will tremble and quake beneath the feet of your enemies and they will fly in t
er
ror, save those that are swallowed up entirely by the very ground itself. No spell in the lore of the mystic arts has as much power to strike fear into the hearts and minds of those that suffer its mighty impact.  But use this enchantment wisely for it wi
ll leave you as weak as a newborn babe.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Undead -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Ever since the coming of the evil  wizard Mondain and his hellish offspring,, the lands of Britannia have been plagued by the return of creatures already slain. These once-dead beings take many forms, the mo
st common being the animated skeletons of Orcs and goblins, or the ghoulish forms of flesh-eating corpses that have been summoned from the land of shades to wreak havoc on the living. These apparitions are cowed by the light of righteousness and fight as 
warriors in a trance.  Nonetheless, they are hard to kill and never tire in battle and thus may jeopardize even a seasoned band of adventurers. Each mage knows a form of turning them aside when encountered, but the components of such magics are personal a
nd
 depend on the spellcaster. You must use your knowledge of the properties of magical reagents to determine which two will lend force to your enchantment of Undead turning. When you have found the proper mixture, cast it at your foes while chanting the nam
e of what the creatures once were when they trod the earth in life.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 View -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The lands that we now call Britannia in honor of the wise and just influence of Lord British are vast in scope and hold many uncharted regions. Although cartographers have traveled 
all the circumference of the main continent, many internal tracts have yet to be accurately recorded, while there are numerous islands rumored to exist to the southeast with nary a chart to show their location. Here the practitioner of the mystic arts has
 a great advantage over the wanderer or seafarer in that the View spell may be woven when the need arises. The View incantation is of middling difficulty and involves the use of hallucinatory Nightshade and powerful Mandrake Root. Mandrake lends power to 
the enchantment while Nightshade provides a mystic overview of all the land within the range of a simple Blink spell. Simply blend the reagents and speak out the name of the region through which you travel.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Wind Change -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Not all Britannia is accessible on foot, and oft times the wizard will find the need to embark on a sea voyage to reach some certain destinations in the pursuit of Truth. Once aboard ship, most voyagers find themselves at the mercy of capricious nature w
ith her ever-changing winds. This is n
ot true for the practitioner of the mystic arts, however, for through magical means one may control the very direction of the wind, albeit for but a short span of time. Wind Change is not a taxing enchantment; indeed a powerful wizard can cast it almost c
ontinuously, although it is not so trivial as opening trapped chests or effecting minor teleportations...Simply mix Sulphurous ash for power and Blood Moss for movement to coax the wind to a more favorable direction. Speak the name of the patron of winds 
and call out the direction desired and the winds shall change at your bidding.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Xit -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 When trapped in the bowels of the earth, weary and battered with a long road to the surface, the use of an Xit (exit) spell can be beneficial. This enchantment is but one of the middling forms of teleportation, quite similar in cost and nature to the Bli
nk spell. It too disassembles the party and reassembles it on the surface of Britannia, and thus requires very similar components to the aforementioned Blink enchantment. Asi
de from the moving Blood Moss and the binding Spider Silk which ensures the safe passage of the disincorporated party, Xit requires the use of Sulphurous Ash to provide the flare that guides the party from the depths of darkness to the world of sunlight. 
When casting the Xit spell, the thaumaturge should try to envision the actual entrance to the underworld used to gain the subterranean passages at the beginning of the expedition below ground. Successful casting of the Xit spell will surely return them to
 that selfsame spot.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Y (UP) -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The two most elementary forms of teleportation both have strange names and may be used only when underground. The more difficult of the two is known by the letter "Y" in honor of the mage Yenthak Gnor, who first crafted the enchantment. Yenthak Gnor disc
overed that a blend of Blood Moss and Spider Silk in conjunction with the spoken names of the moons would cause one who utters it to be lifted upward through the very soil to the next highest level of a dungeon. The Spider Silk h
olds the party together during their transit, while the Blood Moss moves them ever closer to the moons.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par Z (DOWN) -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The "Z" or Down spell is perhaps the simplest of all the teleportation spells.  It requires the same components as the "Y" or Up spell - these being Blood Moss for movement and Spider Silk for its binding qualities - but requires half the mental energy a
nd concentration on the part of the spellcaster due to the natural tendency of all bodies to move downward. The origin of the name is uncertai
n, but it is believed that the letter "Z" is the first letter of the unpronounceable True-name of the Lord of the Underworld, a demon of much power. To effect the spell, the spellcaster must scatter the reagents and chant  "Baja" in stentorian tones. The 
lower the tonality of the chant, the higher the probability of the party moving down one level of a dungeon.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER I}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 POLITCAL HISTORY
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The Dark Ages of Britannia is the name given to that long span of time when the infamous Triad Of Evil stalked the lands and challenged all for the supremacy of the soul.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The First Era of the Dark Ages came to an end with the downfall of the evil Wizard Mondain and his many minions, as chronicled in Ultima I. The Lords of the land were weak and scattered, rendered ineffective by factional wars. It was only through the vali
ant efforts of an itinerant adventurer that the foul Mondain was tracked to his hidden lair and slain. 
\par But a few years of restless peace followed Mondain's downfall. So long had the world shuddered beneat
h Mondain's yoke that many found it hard to  believe he had been really vanquished. In truth, his teachings did not disappear.  Mondain's apprentice Minax rose to power soon thereafter to challenge the fledgling city-states that were beginning to evolve. 
The Terrors had begun anew.
\par Minax's powers upon maturity greatly exceeded those of her evil  mentor. With these powers she was able to rain wholesale destruction upon the planet, twisting and corrupting everything. Her foul web spread through time itself, e
nsnaring all who sought to oppose her. Finally, there arose a hero out of legend who dared face Minax in her own fiery castle and destroy her. Thus ended the Second Era of Darkness, as told in Ultima II.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Twenty years of well-earned tranquillity ensued and prosperity favored the land. Then disturbing omens appeared, followed by the mysterious appearance of a fiery island. The tale of the Third Era of the Dark Ages is told by Iolo the Bard in Ultima III - w
herein Lord British, sovereign of an incipient empir
e in the land of Sosaria, called forth through time and space for Heroes of the People to assemble. Four diverse adventurers answered the clarion call. To them fell the geas of the Doom of Exodus. Long they labored on the trail of the mysterious Exodus, t
hrough many a deep dungeon which seared their souls. To this day, each member of that team bears the marks of their journey. With the air of the mystical Time Lord they were successful in bypassing the Great Earth Serpent and gaining access to Exodus' isl
an
d fortress. The very bricks of the fortress rose up against them, and great is the Bard's tale of their struggle to reach their mortal foe. Of the final confrontation not one of them will speak, save to say that the evil is gone from this plane. So passed
 the third member of the Triad of Evil and with this death, so passed the Dark Ages of Britannia.
\par From the rubble of Sosaria, Lord British was able to unite all the mainland and a few of the islands under his one rule. This new Empire of Britannia brought m
uch sought-after peace and prosperity to its subjects. Many of the ancient pockets of evil were destroyed, so that the only remaining hazard to wayfarers was the occasional stray band of marauding Orcs or hill giants. Most of the lands were mapped, althou
gh a few unexplored regions still remain. With the Triad of Evil destroyed, Lord British became known for his dedication to raising the quality of life of his subjects. To assist in this endeavor, three mighty structures were raised in distant parts of th
e 
realm. One was the Lycaeum, wherein lay the great observatory. Another was the Empath Abbey with its oak groves where wise men and women meditated upon the teachings of the ancients. The third structure was the great castle of the Knight's Order of the Si
lver Serpent. Only the flower of Lord British's chivalry was invited to join this order, which embodied the highest ideals and exemplary bravery. The rest of the land was divided among eight major towns, each with its own political faction. Numerous satel
lite villages also dotted the countryside between the towns. In this manner were Lord British's lands organized.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER II
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 GEOGRAPHY
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The final destruction of Exodus rocked the known world. Mountains rose; land masses sank. Most of the surface area of the world became fused together into one large mass. It is over this major continent - now called Britannia - that Lord British rules. So
me nearby islands also pay homage to him, while beyond these islands lurk uncharted shoals and rumored pockets of evil.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Lo
rd British's magnificent castle is situated in the center of the continent, overlooking Britanny Bay. This tall building is the greatest architectural structure of the new age. Loyal subjects may pay homage to his majesty, and renew fealty whenever they a
re in the vicinity of his castle. Nearby lies the arts center of Britannia - the town of Britain - were Bards weave tales of legendary deeds and serenade visitors.
\par To the north of the castle of Lord British lies the great mountain range, known as the Serpen
t's Spine. The peaks of this range are the highest in all Britannia. During the summer months, a small out-of-the-way pass allows knowledgeable travelers to save much time on their journeys. Beware of the one-eyes Cyclops and fierce, two-headed Ettins tha
t inhabit this range.
\par Northwest from the mountains begin the vast woods known as the Deep Forest. Many a traveler has become lost among these tall, majestic trees. If thy feet stray from the beaten path, do not despair, for within the woods  lies the beauti
ful city of Yew, home of the mystic Druids. The High Court of Yew judges all the important cases in Britannia and is famed far and wise for the wisdom of the decisions rendered here.
\par Nearby is the spiritual center of Britannia, the famous Empath Abbey. Within these hallowed walls, wise men and women study the ancient writings of  past Masters, and meditate upon the Great Principles that govern the universe. A good meditation - focusin
g on a proper Mantra - will sometimes yield valuable visions to those whose patience and powers of concentration are strong. The experience is well worth sampling.
\par East of the Deep Forest lie the High Steppes of Britannia, famous for beautiful horses. The only difficulties a traveler might encounter here are bands of thieving Rogues and unfriendly Wizards. The High Steppes border an interior lake fables for mysterio
us disturbances.
\par Beyond the High Steppes lies the famous battlefield, know as the Bloody Plains, where the last major forces of evil were vanquished. Alas, many of our
 brace men perished here in the fight for virtue. Be very careful when thou passeth through this region. It is whispered that, at some phases of the moon, the undead rise and fight the battle again.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Lost Hope Bay lies to the north of here, with the sturdy town of Minoc perched on its shore. Minoc is home to some of the finest craftsmen in the realm. The Tinkers of Minoc are known far and wide for their skill. A  tired traveler will also find a refres
hing place to rest at the Wayfarer's Inn. The northeaster tip of Britannia is rather wild. The treacherous marshes, with the noxious vapors that poison the unwary explorer, are home to swarms of large insects and all manner of vile beasts. 
\par South of Lord British's castle can be found a large plain, mountains, and a dense forest. On the southern edge of the continent is the magnificent  town of Trinsic, from whence come Lord British's finest Paladins. The Tap in town has some of the best brew
 around, and the bartender is a great source of current gossip. Be sure to tip him well!
\par The claws of the southern tip of Britannia embrace the Cape of Heroes. Slightly to the west lie the Valarian Isles. The walled town of  Jhelom provides Lord British with the best fighters and also has the largest inn of the realm, where the service is out
standing.
\par The headquarters for the Order of the Silver Serpent is on an island south of the Cape of Heroes. This wooded fortress was given to the members of  the Order by Lord British in recognition of their outstanding service. A visit to S
erpent Castle will instill within the traveler a true feeling for the ways of chivalry.
\par Off the western shore of Britannia is the island home of the doughty Rangers. Skara Brae is a beautiful city and spaciously laid out. For those suffering from rare diseases or grievous wounds, a Mystical Healer resides within those walls. The Healer will 
air the destitute as readily as the wealth, expecting no payment save what the sufferer can afford.
\par In the northeaster part of Britannia lies Verity Isle, famous as the 
home of the Lycaeum. This pillar of higher learning constitutes the center for the sharpening of the finest minds in Britannia. The Lycaeum's observatory provides Lord British with valuable information about the course of the  heavens and provides a vanta
ge point to watch the happenings within his realm. On the southern end of Verity is situated the fabled town of Moonglow. The Magi of Moonglow are constantly improving their skills, being tireless in the pursuit of greater knowledge of the mystic arts. Wi
thin Moonglow, however, can be obtained the finest in mystical reagents. These herbs will help those with magical skills prepare and cast their spells.
\par This then is the known realm of Britannia. Several small villages also dot the landscape, but all are not  recorded in the charts of the realm. Some other islands of varying significance hug the shoreline - most of which are uninhabited and barren. The on
ly islands the traveler should be cautious about when exploring are known as the Fens of the Dead. Disembodied Wisps, Ghosts, long-dead Lichs, and savage Zorns have been reported here.
\par Existing maps are by no means complete. There are said to be other unexplored isles, wherein all manner of monsters and evil beings reside: flame-breathing Dragons, multi-headed Hydras, horned Devils, fiery Lava Lizards and even dreaded Balrons are rumore
d to roam the distant shores. Somewhere, out beyond civilization, is also reputed to lie the ruins of the legendary town of Magincia, which the gods destroyed for the insufferable
 pride of those that dwelt there. All of the magnificent marble palaces and gardens were devastated, and the rich, haughty inhabitants reduced to haunting spirits. No one has ever confirmed this legend, so it may just be a fable to frighten the weak of he
art and instill humility in those that overvalue their own worth.
\par Sea travel along the coast of the main continent is reasonable safe, although a bold band of pirates has been raiding Britannia of late, terrorizing the populace. Beware, for the pirates take
 no prisoners! Farther out to sea roam many mythical creatures. The unwary voyager will likely encounter Giant Squids, Nixies, poisonous Serpents, and mystical Seahorses. The ever-present danger of whirlpools and waterspouts make seafaring a hazardous exp
erience at best.
\par It is hoped that with the next edition of the History of Britannia, travelers will have brought back more information one these unexplored regions, so that the map may be completely filled in. As a final caution for the would be traveler - 
Beware of the many Dungeons and their dark, subterranean passages!
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER III
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 FELLOWSHIP
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Under Lord British's rule, each of the eight towns has developed into a cultural center for one of the eight major professions. In this manner, an orderly society has evolved with little friction between the diverse inhabitants. No one is restricted to th
eir town of birth, and one frequently finds people of various professions, visiting a particular town. 
\par 
\par These are the eight major professions:
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 MAGE:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609    The Magi of
 Britannia gather in Moonglow, near the Lycaeum, where they can study the ancient mystical scrolls of the Library. The strictures of their profession permit Magi to wear only cloth armour and carry either a staff, dagger, or sling. Unconfirmed rumors indi
cate that the highest Adepts have acquired the use of arcane magical weapons. The primary weapon of the Mage, of course, is magic. As the Mage becomes more advanced, more powerful spells can be woven. Some of the greatest spells have been known to literal
ly shake the earth, or raise the dead!
\par \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BARD:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
   The Bards of Britain entertain the people with their wonderful ballads and tales of heroic deeds. Bards not only chronicle the deeds of valor, but perform them as well. The weapon of choice for a Bard is the sling, but they may use a crossbow at times.
 All armour save that of Leather is shunned by these minstrels, for they find metal harsh and too noisy for their sensitive ears. The Bard also dabbles in magic and makes a fine companion on a long journey.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 FIGHTER:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 From the town of Jhelom hail the mighty Fighters. They pass their lives in training and have the use of all weapons and armour, though most prefer the use of the double-edged Britannian sword, a devastating weapon in the hands of a skilled fencer. Fighte
rs have little or no magical talents, for they believe only in the use of arms and fear that magical training saps the will and concentration of a true warrior. They posses a particular affinity for horses, and are most useful companions on travels to unc
harted regions. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 DRUID:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The Druids are fierce fighters, especially when defending their beloved groves. They hold all trees to be sacred and their town of Yew lies deep in the woods. Druids are also impressive practitioners of the mystic arts and their knowledge of herbs is wit
hout peer. They may fight with different types of bows, although their preferred weapon is the mace. They Druidic philosophy forbids the wearing of metal of any kind, so Leather is their armour of choice. The Druid's knowledge of the
 ways of the woodlands make them invaluable as fellow travelers.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 TINKER:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The Tinkers of Minoc are both highly skilled artisans and superb fighters. They are generally suspicious of magic, believing that only hand-crafted artifacts posses true value, and thus use it seldomly. A Tinker may use any weapon, however, the double-bl
aded war axe is preferred. Tinkers will use any non-magical armour. A traveling party with a Tinker aboard need never fear for repair of any metal or wooden items.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PALADIN:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  These grea
t fighters live in the town of Trinsic in the southern part of Britannia. They are expert in all forms of combat and weapon use, and are one of the few professions that will make use of magically chain armour when it is available. Their deep beliefs in th
e value of good lend strength to their magic, which they wield with a certain flair. Paladins are thus very formidable opponents and highly valued allies.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 RANGER: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Off the western shore of the mainland lies the fair island of the Rangers. Venturing far from
 their retreat at Skara Brae, they strive to improve the conditions of people throughout the realm. Rangers are well-versed in woods lore and fight fiercely with most weapons, but shun all but leather armour. They are also proficient magic users and fault
less trackers in any wilderness.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SHEPHERD:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 It is uncertain whether the Shepherds are skilled in any form of warfare or in the mystic arts. However, they are highly valued traveling companions for their humility and their knowledge of the ways of the land.
\par 
\par A traveler in Britannia need not journey alone. In each town one may - indeed one ought to - converse with all the inhabitants. If thy personal philosophy of life is close to that of the town, then though may ask one of the residents to join thy party. If
 amenable to your invitation, this person will travel with thee, aid thee, and fight with thee. He or she will stay loyal to thee only as long as thou stay true to thy beliefs. If at any time, through actions or deeds, thou stray from the Path, then thy c
o
mpanions will desert thee to thy Fate. Remember, these are Free Companions - not servants or mercenaries. Such is their faith in thee as their leader, that all gold and supplies held by the party is given into thy care for the good of all. Use this trust 
wisely.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER IV
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 MERCENTILE
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
There is a thriving merchant class in Britannia. Each town and village has its own shops that specialize in local wares and services. The seasoned traveler will discover many delightful and useful items to purchase, as well 
as a wide variety of places to eat and sleep.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The monetary system of Britannia is based on Lord British's heraldic charge. It is a gold coin with a silver serpent cast vermeil upon the gold. The process is so difficult that the coin has never been successfully counterfeited or debased in value. This 
coin has been the foundation of the realm's stability and is universally accepted by merchants. Coins of the realm are also to be found in the chests that appear from time to time and are found below the surface
 in the dank dungeons. Beware, as most chests have diabolical traps in place to confound thieves.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Here is a partial list of some of the more popular shops and their wares:
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 WEAPONS SHOP:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Here on may purchase the finest in weaponry that blacksmiths can forge. Depending on the skills of the local artisans, a shop might offer the following range of weapons:
\par \sect }\sectd \ltrsect\sbknone\linex0\headery708\footery708\cols2\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1045 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Staff
\par Dagger
\par Sling
\par Mace
\par Axe\column 
\par Sword
\par Bow
\par Crossbow
\par Flaming Oil
\par Halbred
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par \sect }\sectd \ltrsect\sbknone\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1045 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The weapons shops also offer liberal trade-ins on used equipment, although if thy axe is greatly notched from battle, do not expect much for it.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ARMOURY:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Fine Armour may be purchased in the armories of Britannia. 'Tis just the item to keep highwaymen from slipping a dirk into thy ribs! The local armory may offer any of the following selection:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par Cloth
\par Leather
\par Chain
\par Plate
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The armories will likewise offer trade-ins on used armour, although most would not consider them liberal. By the time most fighters get around to seeking improved armour, the old armour is almost completely falling apar
t, and its principal value is as scrap for the foundries.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PUB: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The subjects of Lord British truly prize their pubs, and it shows in the gracious hospitality to be found in all public houses. Most offer an excellent array of drinks and food for the wayfarer. It is also commonly known that the bartenders are incurable 
gossips - if asked the right question and offered the right price - rare news may be obtained. Public drunkenness is prohibited throughout the lands of Britannia, so temper thy indulgence with wisdom.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 \page GROCERY:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Little is worse than being far from a town and finding thyself and one's companions starving to death because the person in charge of the expedition (thou) hast forgotten to buy enough food. Be sure to lay in a plentiful supply at each opportunity. Thy f
ellow travelers will most certainly be appreciative of thy foresight.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 THE HEALER:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Some towns contain these invaluable places of air where on may go to be healed when suffering from grievous wounds. Remember to heal thy companions also, fo
r a healthy party ensures survival in the wild regions. The Healers are the only ones who may cure victims of the noxious venom inflicted by the inhuman denizens of the land.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 INN: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The numerous inns of Britannia provide the tired travelers with a comfortable night's sleep, which refreshes and revitalizes each character. The character of the inns throughout Britannia varies, as does the price.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HERB SHOP:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  All practitioners of the mystic arts will search far and wide to locate these rare shops. Within them is
 to be found the components - or reagents, as they are known to enchanters - for spell mixtures. Without these mixtures, no spell may be cast successfully. Due to the rareness of some of the herbs, many are not offered for sale regularly, if at all. The k
nown magical reagents art:
\par 
\par \sect }\sectd \ltrsect\sbknone\linex0\headery708\footery708\cols2\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj \pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1045 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Sulphurous Ash
\par Ginseng
\par Garlic
\par Spider Silk\column Blood Moss
\par Black Pearl
\par Nightshade
\par Mandrake Root\sect }\sectd \ltrsect\sbknone\linex0\headery708\footery708\colsx708\endnhere\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj \pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1025 \ltrch\fcs0 
\fs20\lang1033\langfe1045\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1045 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Care should be taken to mix the herbs in the correct proportions, so as not to waste the valuable ingredients.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 GUILD SHOP:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  The Thieves' 
Guild has been essentially driven out of Britannia, but rumors persist of its existence somewhere in the ocean, perhaps on one of the uncharted islands. Somehow the Guild maintains contact with the mainland, perhaps through the brazen pirates. The goods o
nce offered by the Guild were quite expensive, but invaluable to the traveler who sought to stray off the beaten path in search of novel experiences.
\par 
\par These are the main shops of Britannia. A few other places exist that are worth of note:
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SHRINES:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Here the
 devout of each town may meditate upon their Path in life. Each shrine responds to the meditation of a different Mantra (chant). Consistency and concentration are the keys to meditation. Enlightenment is attained only through care.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 THE SEER HAWKWIND:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Residing within Lord British's castle is the Royal Seer, Hawkwind. Many aspire to tread the Path, but very few find their way. Seek the advice of the Seer as to thy progress upon the Path. He can look into thy heart's heart and read thy progress or failu
re. Heed his advice, for feet that have strayed may be brought back upon the Path.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER V
\par 
\par TRANSPORTATION}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Throughout the centuries most travel has been accomplished by the use of the feet. While this method lends itself to scenic hikes, it is a  terribly slow way to journey from one end of a huge continent to the other. Getting around Britannia, which may nev
er be without risk, could soon become easier. Under the auspices of Lord British, studies of the properties of the Moon gates are beginning to yield a c
learer understanding of the Gates' mystical workings. People forecast that future citizens will use these gates as a normal means of distant travel. The destinations of the gates appear to be rigidly bound to the phases of the twin moons Trammel and Feluc
ca. The appearance and disappearance of the gates are represented on most maps of  the realm as phases of the moons. The gate active is indicated by the phase of the moon Trammel. Once a gate is entered, thy destination is indicated by the phase of the mo
on Felucca.
\par 
\par Britannia is marked by six terrain types, each with their own features:
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 GRASS: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The smoothest and easiest to travel on, the lush grass of Britannia serves to fatten its herds. One may be pass here with any impediment.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BRUSH: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Low scrub growth and bushes will hinder thy progress, permitting thy party to move but at three quarters if thy normal speed. Fine tinder for campfires may be found at the base of larger scrubs. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 FOREST: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The going is slow through dense woods, with thy speed cut fully in hal
f. The oak so dearly loved by the Druids predominates here, along with healthy growths of Ash and Beech. There is quite a lack of visibility in the forest regions. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HILLS: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Hilly terrain, much favored by those who raise sheep, will slow thee down considerable, so much so that none but the sure-footed mountain goat can move at more than a snail's pace.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 MARSH:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  The marshes and fens are particularly treacherous and should be avoided at all costs. While progress is only slowed to half one's normal pace by the m
uck underfoot, the marshes give off poisonous gases which can severely harm members of the party.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 MOUNTAINS:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Mountaineering is not a well-known skill in Britannia, so the mountains are closed to the normal traveler. There is also a lack of visibility over the mountains.
\par 
\par Horse may be obtained and greatly speed travel on land. The sages of the Lycaeum are reputed to have been working on a lighter-than-air device for Lord British, but it was stolen some months ago and its whereabouts is not known.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Since whil
e traveling, thy party members' hit points may be diminished by unexpected  confrontations, every so often thou should Hole up for the night and camp. If thy rest is not interrupted by wandering  creatures, then thy party will be greatly refreshed.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par At sea, masterful control of thy ship is necessary for survival. Ships have powerful cannons, but they can only fire broadside. To learn seamanship, thou must understand the ways of the water and the wind.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The ocean is made up of three types of water: Large wave
s mark deep water; small waves indicate shallow water; tight ripples show where lie shoals, too shallow for ships to pass over. Remember that a change in wave size signals approaching land. This will aid in thy navigation.
\par The winds of Britannia blow very constant in a given direction, then shift to a new direction for another long period. This fact allows the skipper of a ship to sail strategically. If the ship is facing into the direction of the wind, (suck as sailing Eas
t against an East wind) then the s
hip's progress is at its slowest - 1/4 Speed. If the ship is sailing with the wind, (as in sailing West with and East wind behind thee) then the ship's speed is faster - 3/4 speed. It is only when one tacks across the wind that the ship reaches maximum sp
eed, (such as sailing North or South against an East wind) - Full Speed. 
\par Strive to maneuver thy ship so as to bring either the port or starboard batteries to bear before creatures or pirates can close and try to board. Thy ship has armour which, if reduced
 to zero, will cause it to sink and thy party shall perish. A captured pirate ship can be used in place of a badly damaged ship. Practice near shore until thou develop seafaring legs. The ship's cannons also serve for firing upon land bound creatures. Bew
are, some of the land creatures have the power of flight and can pursue thee over the waves!
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER VI
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 WEAPONS AND ARMOUR OF THE REALM
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 WEAPONRY:
\par HANDS:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  If thou lose all of thy weapons, this is what thou hast left. Although it is possible to kill some of the lesser monsters with thy bare hands, the odds of success truly are not very high.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 STAFF:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 A six foot piece of carved ironwood that has been magically attuned, the staff sold in the weapons shop of Britain is more formidable than it seems. It is the favorite weapon of Magi.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 DAGGER: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Ten inches of beautifully worked steel make the standard Britannian dagger. The traditional basket hilt looks very functional. A favorite weapon of novices.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SLING: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The common sling is fashioned from twenty-four inches of c
loth, folded in half, with a leather cup. The projectiles - small rocks - are easily collected, making this an inexpensive missile weapon. A perennial favorite with travelers down on their luck.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 MACE: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Upon the 1 1/2 inch thick oaken stem of the Britannian mace rests a globe of iron studded with knobs. The impact of this weapon has been known to shatter the skulls of enemies outright. A favorite among the Druids.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 AXE:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  With a double-sided two foot blade, a warrior wielding a battle axe can really wage war. 
The axe is a favorite among Tinkers, as many of them are workers of wood and metal.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SWORD: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Ah, a true fighter's weapon. Four feet of wicked, blue steel will  strike fear into the heart of any opponent. The sword is an automatic favorite among Fighters.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BOW: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
A truly competent long-range weapon. Get thy enemies before they can get thee! The Britannian bows are made from the finest yew wood. Each longbow is hand-rubbed and ornamented with horn nocks on the tips. A favorite among those with poor armour.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 CROSSBOW:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Now here is a real missile weapon. The impact of the crossbow will stop a rampaging troll. The crossbow is traditionally made of mahogany with carved maple veneer on the sides depicting Lord British's device, the Silver Serpent. A favorite among Bards fo
r the singing of the crossbow's string.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 FLAME OIL:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 The use of flasks of Flame Oil constitutes an innovation in Britannia. Any of the Eight Great Professions can use it. The wielder casts the ignited oil in a chosen direction, creating a corridor of fl
aming oil which lasts several minutes. Any enemy entering the field of flaming oil suffers burn damage for each turn passed in the inferno. A favorite weapon among those badly hurt and in need of rescue - a last ditch defense.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HALBERD:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Seven feet of stout wood topped with a blade of deadly steel. The halberd requires excellent coordination to be used effectively. It is the most deadly of weapons in the hands of an expert, who uses it to strike over the heads of his fellows. A favorite 
among Paladins.
\par 
\par Several magical weapons are said to be found hither and yon, but the location of these are not known for certain. It is said that perchance a traveler must be worthy of such a weapon before it will become available.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 \page ARMOUR:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SKIN: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 What thou are left wearing when though hast no armour at all.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 CLOTH:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Peasant's garb for those who can afford nothing better, or those restricted by the vows of their profession from wearing aught else. A reluctant favorite among the Magi.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 LEATHER: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The workhorse of novice travelers, 
Leather armour is found throughout Britannia. Many of the professions are restricted to Leather as their best choice. A favorite among Bards, Druids, and Rangers. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 CHAIN: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Use by those who can handle the weight of chain main while fighting, this armour offers excellent protection. Only the finest steel is used, with double thickness on the shoulders. All links are individually riveted for strength, A favorite among Fighters
 and Tinkers
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PLATE:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  The aristocrat of the armourer's craft, Plate affords more prote
ction than any other conventional armour. Each suit is tailor made to thy shape. The cost is naturally sizable, but the effect is inspiring. A favorite among Paladins.
\par 
\par As is the case with weaponry, rumors abound of magical armour that will withstand the breath of a dragon. But, who knows? Perhaps these are but rumors spread by Orcs to lure fighters into illusionary searches resulting in death.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER VII
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 MAGICAL ARTS}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Most of us understand only those things that we can see and feel. Yet there is a segme
nt of the population that can see the unseeable, and can feel that which has no substance. The perception and use of these ethereal forces is called magic. To some it is an Art, to others a Science. It is difficult for this Historian to describe the Art w
ith which he is totally unfamiliar. He can, however, commend upon what purports to be the Science. 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The basis of all spellcasting is the proper mixing of the necessary reagents. Reagents are the physical materials which are said to provide the initial energ
y to begin the spell. Each spell uses a different reagent formula. These formulas are jealously guarded by magic users, for quite often the difference between life and death is knowing a spell that thy opponent knows not. From the Bill of Fare at the Herb
 Shops, the observer can glean the names of the reagents: Sulphurous Ash; Ginseng; Garlic; Spider Silk; Blood Moss; and Black Pearl.
\par Furthermore, there are reputed to be two others, more powerful still than those just listed. However, they are not for sale according to the proprietors of the Herb Shops. They are: Nightshade and Mandrake root.
\par Only certain classes of the eight major professions have any talent for magic. Some are quite strongly endowed, such as Magi or Druids, while the Paladins, Bards, Tinkers, and Rangers have but a little power. Fighters and Shepherds have no magical ability
 at all. In face, Magi are so tuned to the special energy that comprises magic that when they cast a spell, a blue aura glows around their head and shoulders.
\par While most
 spells are reputed to possess either offensive or defensive abilities, some are utilitarian in nature, such as Light, Open, and View spells. The rare aeromancer can harness the power of the winds. An ancient scroll on display in the Library at the Lycaeu
m tells of different types of energy fields created by means magical. It lists the following fields and discusses their properties:
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SLEEP: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 A green field that may bring sleep to anyone who passes through it.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 LIGHTNING: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 A blue field that serves as an impenetrable barrier which inflicts damage upon any who touch it.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 FLAME:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  An orange field that imparts massive damage upon those foolish enough to try to cross it.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 POISON: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 A violet field of noxious vapors that poisons anyone passing through who is not quick to hold their breath.
\par 
\par Whether these fields may be controlled by magic is uncertain. However, the scroll was concerned with the tale of a Wizard's battle! One can only ponder whether the writer survived the encounter.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER VIII
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 A BESTIARY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-360\li360\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin360\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BAT:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  A non-evil
 subterranean dweller found in the deepest caverns, the principal diet of the Bat is animal blood. They are quite large and may attack any who disturb their rest.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 CYCLOPS:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 These evil giants can hurl half-ton boulders down from the heights. Even a grazing hit will do considerable damage to a member of thy party. The Serpent's Spine is said to be the best hunting range for them.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 DRAGON:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  The Dragon is an evil, flying serpent which can cross water and blast ships with huge fireballs. Not many ships can withst
and a couple of passes by an attacking Dragon.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ETTIN: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
These evil two-headed aberrations of nature can cast huge boulders down upon thy party, causing immense damage. It is best to try to kill them with long-range weapons and spells. A large of clan of Ettins is said to live along the Serpent's Spine.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 GAZER:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  These hypnotic creatures snare their prey by putting them to sleep. The deep forests are the favorite habitat of these evil, floating eyes.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 GHOST: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The restless spirits of those trapped between planes,
 Ghosts can pass through walls, so use extreme caution when they are though to be nearby. Evil Ghosts are often found in ruins, battlefields, and crypts.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 GREMLIN: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 These hungry denizens of the underworld love to sneak up to unwary travelers and steal all their food. Do not let an evil Gremlin get next to thee!

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HEADLESS: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Another evil being best suited to terror and destruction, the Headless is indeed a creature of nightmares. Many a traveler has fled in abject horror at the sign of these headless torsos bearing down upon them.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HYDRA: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Beware the evil breath of the multi-headed Hydra! The massive fireballs can fry most members of thy party.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par INSECTS:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  If thou dost stay clear of these non-evil vermin, they will not bother thee. Marsh and dungeons are their favorite locals. Insects can fly, so they can chase thee over water.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 LICH:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  This undead shade of a powerful wizard can still case very powerful magic spells. The Lich is a most dangerous opponent under even favorable conditions.

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 LAVA LIZARD:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  These reptilian c
reatures love fire and dwell in infernos. In combat they have been known to spit flaming lava thirty feet, so between these evil beasts.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 MIMIC: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
One of the most treacherous and evil creatures in all of Britannia, the Mimic can assume any shape, although they seem to prefer assuming the likeness of treasure chests. Upon spotting one, the careless traveler greedily rushes towards the chest. When the
 traveler gets close enough, Mimic casts out a poisonous venom. When the traveler succumbs to the poison, the Mi
mic feasts upon him. The only known way to detect a chest Mimic is to wait until it gets curious enough to peer out at thee by lifting the lid of the chest.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 NIXIE:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 These aquatic first cousins of the ancient race of Elves rise from the depths to strike terror into the hearts of seafarers. The evil Nixies wield sharp tridents which can be hurled against a ship's crew from afar, causing great damage.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ORC: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Would that every Orc had been destroyed with the fall of the Triad of Evil! They bred like rabbits and s
till infest the woods and hills, though in much smaller numbers than before. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PHANTOM: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
These tragic souls have been captured by evil and forces to reenact their battles throughout all time. They are bodiless, but can be detected because their swords and shields remain visible. Phantoms are tough opponents as dying is meaningless to them.

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PIRATES: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Truly the dregs of Britannia, most of these crews have death warrants hanging over their heads. Remember that the evil Pirates take no prisoners! Their ships are
 equipped with heavy cannon, and the crews are well-trained to quickly move their large galleons into battle position. It is a rare skipper indeed that can survive a broadside duel with a Pirate vessel. Thy best hope is to "dot the T", or to close with th
y enemy. If thou art able to defeat the crew, the ship itself becomes thy prize. For castaways on remote islands, this is the only hope for salvation.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PYTHON: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The venom of Britannian Python is highly poisonous. These non-evil constrictors can spit their fo
ul venom a full eleven paces, and should be treated with the utmost respect.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 RAT: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The common Giant Rat, while not evil by nature, will still enter human camps in search of food. They pose a threat to any dungeon explorers foolish enough to startle them.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 REAPER: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
These grim creatures stand upright on trunk-like bodies and wave many tentacles at their prey. The evil Reaper can also reputedly cast different energy fields, and thus is considered a most vicious opponent.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ROGUE: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The Rogues that are to be found 
throughout the land are often escaped prisoners who now make their livelihood as highwaymen by attacking travelers. If they get next to thee, they may pick thy pockets.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SEAHORSE: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
These magical creatures appear quite fair and are not evil, but if offended they make devastating enemies. They are possessed of powerful magical abilities which can wreak havoc among thy party.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SERPENT:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  The Sea Serpent is an aquatic relative of the Dragon. The fireball cast by the Serpent can sink a ship long before it has a cha
nce to close with the beast. The best defense against a Sea Serpent is to engage it in close combat as quickly as possible. It is thy only chance, albeit as slim one, to survive the encounter.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SKELETON:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Animated bones, the Skeletons are the undead incarnations of a variety of creatures. These tools of evil strike fear into ordinary travelers. With the proper enchantment, however, they can be Dispelled. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SLIME: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Dungeon walls fairly ooze with slime. Most slime just sits there, this evil variety comes after thee!
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par SPIDER: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Beware of inadvertently wrecking a spider's web and this non-evil creature will probably leave thee in peace. If thou suffer the misfortune of crossing one, take care to avoid the venomous spittle.

\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SQUID:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 When the tentacles of the Giant Squid close around a man or a ship, the very power of lightning is released upon the prey. 'Tis best to try to destroy the evil Squid with cannon fire before it can engage thee at close quarters. 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 TROLL: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 These large and evil creatures can hurl axes - of whic
h they carry a plentiful supply - with frightening accuracy. Beware their tricks. Trolls are usually found in hills and mountains.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 WISP: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
More insubstantial than most evil creatures, Wisps can actually teleport around the battlefield and attack from anywhere. It is most disconcerting to be involved in an encounter than contains a Wisp.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 WIZARD: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Not all magic users follow the path of Good. These evil renegade Wizards make very dangerous adversaries when crossed.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ZORN:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Zorns are the antithesis of everything.
 They pass right through walls and obstacles, and negate all nearby magic. If an evil Zorn closes with thee, thou probably will not escape its embrace.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 LORDS OF THE EVIL DOMINION}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BALRON: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
It is believed by some that all of these Marshals of Evil were destroyed when the Triad fell. If any do exist, it would be better for one to Quit life itself than to face the fury of a Balron. The ancient scrolls describe them as flying creatures which ca
st devastating fireballs as well as weave massive enchantments that once felled entire armies.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 DEVIL: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
These Flying Lieutenants of Evil may sweep offshore and chase thee across the waves. They are powerful magic users and should be avoided at all costs. Devils are particularly fond of torturing their victims when the opportunity arises. 
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER IX
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 THE SKILLS OF COMBAT
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 The historian is a man of intellectual pursuits and therefore little acquainted with the ways of combat. For the following information on such skills, we are deeply indebted to the Master at Arms of the Or
der of the  Silver Serpent.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BEFORE FIGHTING:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Be certain that thou art properly equipped for the ensuing fray. Dost thou has the proper weapon and armour? If not, then thou must equip thyself anew. When thou commence to Ready a weapon or Wear some armour, thou wilt be offered a selection of such ite
ms as are available in thy party's common pool. If thou dost choose an item inappropriate for thy class, thou wilt be asked to select again.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par INITIATING COMBAT:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  When thou art next to an enemy, thou may Attack in the direction of thy foe. Thou wilt then be able to view thy combat location, and battle shall ensue.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 BEING ATTACKED:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 If thou dost not attack a creature, then assuredly the creature will attack thee at its earliest opportunity, assuming that they creature is evil or hungry.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HOW TO FIGHT:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Each fighter and magic used will have an opportunity for separate action. Thou may only attack in the main cardinal directions (North, East, South, and West). When it is a fighter's turn, those with hand weapons may Attac
k an adjacent area by specifying the direction. Those with missile weapons may fire them across the battlefield by denoting the direction of fire. Magic users can Cast a spell when it is their turn. Again, only spells for which reagents have been prepared
 will function. The spell must be selected and the direction fixed. Most combat spells are functional cross the field of battle. Energy fields, however, can be cast only in areas adjacent to the caster.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 VICTORY: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 When all of the monsters have been destroyed
, thou wilt return to the surrounding countryside. If the monsters were carrying any treasure, this will now be available to thee. Care should be used in  Opening any treasure chests, as they are frequently trapped.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par FLEEING:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 There will come times in thy quests when though wilt be confronted with superior forces. Whenever one of thy team is near death, guide him or her off the combat field to save them. If the tactical situation deteriorates completely, removing all members o
f the party from the field will disengage thee from thy enemy. There are those who will call thy actions cowardly, but a wise leader will know the value of preserving the life of one's fellows.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 TERRAIN CONSIDERATIONS:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Devote considerable time to the study of the fields of combat. Locate defensible positions for thy party, making sure to maintain an avenue of escape should the battle go badly. Remember our heritage! A few valiant fighters strategically placed in a narr
ow rocky pass can stand off an army numbered in the thousands.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 WEAPON CONSIDERATIONS:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 These are three distinct classes of weapons available to the warrior. They are: Missile Weapons which permit the striking of foes at a distance; Polearms which allow one to smite over an obstacle or companion; and hand to hand weapons which necessitate e
ngaging one's enemies at very close quarters.
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ETHICS OF WAR:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Do not feel that it is thy birthright to slay everything that walks, flies, or swims. The Code of Chivalry states that before engaging in combat with a foe, the warrior should ask,
 "Is this foe truly evil?" If it is not, then thou must not kill it, but stand thy ground and force it to retreat. The Code is thy touchstone, for without it thou are but a speck of dust in the whirlwind of Chaos.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 CHAPTER X
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 MODERN CIVILIZATION AND OUR UNIVERSE
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
We have just emerged from the darkest period in recorded history. With the vanquishing of the Triad of Evil. We need no longer anxiously watch our backs for fear that evil will fall upon us in the first  unguarded moment. The stability achieved by 
the New Age seems to herald a Golden Age of Peace and Prosperity.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
What kind of people will inherit this New Age? Surely our destiny is not to perpetually fight as warring tribes throughout all time. Is there not a higher calling - one worthy of our efforts and capabilities?
\par If one accepts that the next area of human growth should not be fostered through aggressive territorial expansion, then a possible answer emerges - We must turn inward. Of late a small group of inquisitive philosophers at the Lycaeum hav
e been asking such questions of each other. While their musings seem quite radical and new, they are worthy of consideration:
\par Is living a life of virtue an essential element of civilization, or can society survive the test of time without such principles?
\par How might we ensure the long-term continuation of our new-found peace? What systems of laws and ethics will ensure the continued happiness of all our people?
\par Why doth Evil still stalk the world and can it ever be truly vanquished?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 If the public set of ethi
cs which evolved from the days of primordial survival is impure, how can we achieve a clean foundation upon which to build a life of virtue?
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Given the premise that to understand purity, one must strive to be so, how does one strive for that which cannot be understood?
\par If our true purpose here is to achieve a balance with out surroundings - as is suggested in the ancient scrolls of the Library - how can We face Nature without first facing ourselves?
\par Meditation seems to hold the key to perspective. In the tra
nscendental state one is freed from the shackles of modern living. The whole of the  universe resonates with thee, and thou dost feel for once as if thou dost belong to a greater whole. Yet all too soon the meditation ends, and thou dost return from this 
brief glimpse of the sublime to the daily need for survival.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
It is time for all to put aside their warlike ways and begin fighting the evil that lurks within themselves. It is far too easy to sit and espouse the path of Virtue, yet never set foot upon it. T
hey ancient rule of treating others as thou wouldst be treated thyself takes on new meaning when put into the context of universal harmony. We must become living examples of our beliefs!
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 How does one begin to first walk along this new way? Do road markers exist if we but open our eyes to see them?
\par To be at peace in all areas is a state only achieved by an Avatar. Is such a state attainable by any human, fallible as we all are? The true answer can only be found by those who quest forth in search of it - for 
who can see the end of the Path before beginning the journey? Yet it is also written that for each person the Path is different. Perhaps the seeker of wisdom and enlightenment should begin by visiting Lord British, for his knowledge of the ways of the lan
d is great. Conversing with him may help one to determine where lies the centers of the Eight Virtues of the Avatar.
\par Many philosophers hold the opinion that the Path is in reality but a series of separate small paths. Each minor path leads to the fulfillmen
t of an aspect of ourselves. Treading one of these minor paths may be construed as a life's goal, and many people have debated which is the most advantageous to follow.
\par Yet is not the whole much greater than the sum of its parts? Take up the challenge and tread not one but all of the minor paths in thy search for enlightenment and perfection. Perhaps only then will though find the beginnings of the great Path. The Quest 
of the Avatar awaits. It is not thy Heritage that thou does seek, 'tis thy Destiny!
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Afterword
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 As an addendum to this work, I, Lord British, would like to speak of the Quest of the Avatar mentioned in these pages.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
The Quest of the Avatar is the search for a new standard, a new vision of life for which out people may strive. We seek the person who can become a shining example of our nation and guides us from the Age of  Darkness into the Age of Light.
\par We have sent this message our to the farthest reaches of the known universe, indeed, we have even spoken across the void of time. Is there One wh
o can complete the Quest of the Avatar? Many have tried already, and have met with partial success, becoming enlightened in one or more of the Eight Virtues of the Avatar - but none have yet attained the true state of being  an Avatar.
\par The secrets of the Avatar are buried deep in the hearts of both our people and the land in which we dwell. The search will be arduous and the One who shall succeed must be able to assemble all the parts of the great mystery in order to solve the Quest.

\par Gaze upon the device portrayed on the facing page of this tome. Learn it well, for when thou dost gaze upon it again then shall thy life's quest be revealed.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs40\insrsid3228609 Ultima IV
\par Quest of the Avatar}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs40\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs40\insrsid3228609 
\par PLAYER REFERENCE CARD
\par 
\par By Lord British
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par IBM Version
\par Conversion By: James Van Artsdalen
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PLAYER REFERENCE
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-810\li810\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin810\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 A)\tab Attack -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Attempt to engage thy foe with the weapon thou hast readied (Ready Weapon command); must be followed by the direction of thy foe.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 B)\tab Board -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Board a vessel or mount a horse.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 C)\tab Cast -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Cast a magical spell; must be followed by
 the number of the player who wishes to cast it (not needed in combat or in dungeon rooms), and then the first letter of the desired spell.  Note: All spells must have reagents mixed in advance of casting.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 D)\tab Descend -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Climb down ladder to next level of dungeon or building.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 E)\tab Enter -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Go into such places as villages, townes, castles, dungeons and shrines.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 F)\tab Fire -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Fire a ship's cannons (once thou hast Boarded); must be followed by a direction.  Note: Broadsides only!
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-810\li810\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin810\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 G)\tab Get Chest -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Attempt to open (and dis
arm, if trapped) chest; must be followed by the number of the player who wishes to open the chest, except during combat and in dungeon rooms.  
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-810\li810\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin810\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Note: }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
'Tis wisest to use the player with the highest Dexterity when examining potentially dangerous chests as this lessens the chances of setting off any traps.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 H)\tab Hole up and camp -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Set up camp to rest and recover from thy wounds. Note: This command may only be used successfully with limited frequency.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 1)\tab Ignite a torch -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Light a torch for illumination in dungeons.  Requires a special item.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 J)\tab Jimmy lock -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Use a magical key to unlock a sealed door.  Must be followed by the direction of the door that thou dost wish to unlock.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 K)\tab Klimb -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Climb up a ladder to the next level of a building or dungeon, or to reach the surface from the topmost level of a dungeon.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 L)\tab Locate Position -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Requires a special item.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 M)\tab Mix Reagents -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Prepare material components of spells for later use.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li810\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin810\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Note: Thou must have reagents mixed ahead of time in order to cast any spells.  When asked "Reag
ent:". type the letter corresponding to the reagents desired and then type [Return] when thou wishes to mix them.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs28\lang1033\langfe1045\langnp1033 \hich\af0\dbch\af0\loch\f0 N) \tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-810\li810\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnucltr\pnb1\pni0
\pnfs28\pnstart14\pnindent360\pnhang {\pntxta ) }}\nooverflow\faroman\ls1\rin0\lin810\itap0\pararsid3228609 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 New order -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Exchanges the position of two players indicated within thy party, except for player #l, for thou must lead the party. 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-810\li810\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin810\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 O)\tab Open door -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Open a door in the direction indicated.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 P)\tab Peer at gem -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Requires a special item.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Q)\tab Quit & Save -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Saves the current game status to disk; thou may continue after this command or power down thy computer.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 R)\tab Ready a weapon -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Equip a player with the weapon of thy choice (if owned) for use in combat.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 S)\tab Search -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Search thy exact current location for unusual items.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 T)\tab Talk -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Allows a player to converse with merchants or townesfolk in the direction indicated. 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 U)\tab Use -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Use an item thou hast found during play by means of the "Search" command.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 V)\tab Volume -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Toggles sound effects on or off.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 W)\tab Wear armour -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Outfits a player with the armour of thy choice if owned for defense in combat.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 X)\tab Xit}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  - That's (e)xit thy current form of transportation and continue on foot.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Y)\tab Yell -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Yell "giddyup" or "whoa" to speed up or slow down thy horse.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Z)\tab Ztats -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Displays the status and attributes of a selected player; if 0 is pressed instead of a player number, this command will display the lists of weapons, armour, items, reagents and mixtures.  The left and right arrow keys will scroll through these lists, whi
le pressing any other key will return thee to game play.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ARROW KEYS}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  \tab Control movement. North/South/East/West
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 * Special Note:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Talking with the people found in the game is one of }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid3228609 the most}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 important features of Ultima IV to master. It is almost impossible to solve thy quests without talking to virtually all people in each towne. Each person with whom thou dost Talk is capable of a full conversation. They can be asked about their "Name", "J
ob", and "Health". Thou may "Look" again at their visual description. From this information thou shouldst be able to discern what else they might know, hinted at }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid3228609 directly}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 
\insrsid3228609  by use of the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid3228609 precise}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  words in the conversation. For example: If thou were to
 ask Dupre about his "Job" and he were to respond "I am hunting Gremlins," thou might think to ask him about "Hunting" or "Gremlins" - about either of which he might offer some insight. 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
Each of these people might ask of thee a question as well; be sure to answer the question honestly, for dishonesty will be remembered and not reflect well on thee for the rest of the game. Often thou shalt not know what to ask a townesperson until thou ha
st been told by another: e.g. Iolo the bard might tell thee to ask Sha
mino the Ranger about swords. Even if thou hadst met Shamino earlier thou wouldst not have known to ask about swords, and thus thou wouldst have to seek him out again if thou dost wish that knowledge.
\par Some of the people that thou shalt meet may be willing to become thy travelling companions. If thou dost wish for a character to become a player in thy party, thou must ask them to "}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Join}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 
\ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 " thee. 'Tis most wise to strengthen thy party as rapidly as possible, up to the seven companions thou shall need to complete the game. When thou art through with a conversation, then speak the word "}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 
\ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Bye}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 " as an accepted means of politely ending thy conversation.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\i\insrsid3228609 Be sure to keep a journal of thy travels!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Many of the clues to solving the quests of Ultima IV art contained in the various and diverse conversations thou might have with the various townesfolk. It would be next to impossible to solve this game without some means of referring back to prior conve
rsations held during play.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\i\insrsid3228609 Be sure to thoroughly explore the cities and townes!}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Many of the quests within Ultima IV art contained entirely within individual cities. 'Tis wisest to spend a great deal of fime seeking out the answers that lie hidden in each one of the various townes of Britannia, before moving on to another. }{
\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 NOTE:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  During thy conversations with people in Ultima IV, thou may feel the impulse to show thy generosity to less fortunate fellows. Thou may do so by saying: "}
{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Give}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 ".
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par Thy party is seen here standing on a point of land that jut: into the sea. To the North is a castl
e, while a ship rocks gently on the waves to the Northwest. Just above the ship one can see a towne. Thy party consists of three travellers - British, Iolo and Geoffrey - whose names appear in the Party Window. Their current status is also therein display
ed: British hath 372 Hit Points and is in Good condition; Iolo hath 380 Hit Points and is suffering from Poison; and Geoffrey hath 380 Hit Points and is in Good condition. The narrow window below 'indicates that the party hath 24 units of Food and 1823 Go
ld pieces. The symbol in the center indicates if any spells art currently active.
\par 
\par Paused to cross a bridge, thy party can see an approaching band of Skeletons to the Northeast.  At the top of the view window thou can see the current status of the twin moons Trammel and Felucca, which is Crescent Waning for Trammel and Felucca is in its
 Last Quarter.  The moonphases art represented as follows:
\par 
\par Thou art currently checking on the status of the traveller lolo and his attributes show in the Party Window.  Thou c
an see that he is a Male Bard whose condition is Good, he is possessed of 13 Magic Point, 16 Strength, 19 Dexterity, 13 Intelligence; he hath attained Level 4; cuffently hath 376 Hit Points, with a flit Point Maximum of 400, and hath 714 Experience Points
.  His current weapon is a Sling, while he wears Cloth Armour.
\par 
\par Thy party can be seen at the bottom part of the view window, engaged in mortal combat with four Pirates who art aboard their ship.  Note that as each member of thy party bath the opportunity to
 strike a blow, their current weapon is displayed below their name. The direction of the wind is indicated at the bottom of the view window.  If thou were to win this combat and take possession of the vessel, the full Strength of the ship would be display
ed in the narrow window where thy gold would normally be displayed.
\par 
\par Magical ability is directly related to the Profession and Intelligence of thyself and thy travelling companions.  Magical strength is twice the Intelligence of the spellcaster, with potent
ial modified by Profession.  The enchantment potential of the various Professions is :
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li720\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin720\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Mage - Full\tab \tab \tab \tab Bard - One Half
\par Ranger - On Half\tab \tab \tab Fighter - None
\par Druid - Three Fourths \tab \tab Paladin - One Half
\par Tinker: One Fourth\tab \tab \tab Shepherd - None
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 ULTIMA IV HINTS
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 LOCATION OF RUNES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Honesty - }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Northwest corner of Moonglow. Search the chest next to Mariah.
\par Compassion - Northeast corner of Britain (the Inn). Search at the end of the hallway.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Valor - }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Southeast edge of Town. The rune is in one of four towers which connect long hallways surrounding the town.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Justice - }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Northwest corner of Yew, enter the jailhouse and speak with Talfourd. Search the felon's cell.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Sacrifice -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
 Once in the Weapons shop in Minoc, you must enter a small room off to the Southeast of it. In the lower right hand corner of this room is a fire pit. Search the southeast corner of the firepit.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Honor - }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 In the southwest corner of Trinsic, Virgil is surrounded by a wall of force fields. Search the space just to the upper-right of Virgil.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Spirituality -}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609  Located i
n a small room past the guard room in Lord British's castle. Player must find the secret door which connects these rooms. Search the lower right-hand corner of room.
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 Humility- }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
In southeast corner of the village of Paws is a group of mountains. The player should see Wheatpin and talk to him first. Search the nook of the mountains.
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 LELEL ADVANCEMENT}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par LEVEL\tab \tab \tab EXPERIENCE POINT RANGE
\par ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\par 1\tab \tab \tab \tab 0000-0100
\par 2\tab \tab \tab \tab 0101-0200
\par 3\tab \tab \tab \tab 0201-0400
\par 4\tab \tab \tab \tab 0401-0800
\par 5\tab \tab \tab \tab 0801-1600
\par 6\tab \tab \tab \tab 1601-3200
\par 7\tab \tab \tab \tab 3201-6400
\par 8\tab \tab \tab \tab 6401-????
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 \page SHOP LOCATION
\par FOOD:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab \tab Moonglow
\par \tab \tab \tab Britain
\par \tab \tab \tab Yew
\par \tab \tab \tab Skara Brae
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HEALING:}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Moonglow
\par \tab \tab \tab Britain
\par \tab \tab \tab Jhelom
\par \tab \tab \tab Yew
\par \tab \tab \tab Skara Brae
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HERBS \tab \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Moonglow
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 (REAGENTS)\tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Moonglow
\par \tab \tab \tab Skara Brae
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 INN}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab \tab Moonglow
\par \tab \tab \tab Britain
\par \tab \tab \tab Jhelom
\par \tab \tab \tab Minoc
\par \tab \tab \tab Trinsic
\par \tab \tab \tab Skara Brae
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 PUB}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab \tab Britain
\par \tab \tab \tab Jhelom
\par \tab \tab \tab Trinsic
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 WEAPONS}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Britain
\par \tab \tab \tab Jhelom
\par \tab \tab \tab Minoc
\par \tab \tab \tab Trinsic
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 ARMOUR}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Britain
\par \tab \tab \tab Jhelom
\par \tab \tab \tab Minoc
\par \tab \tab \tab Trinsic
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 GUILD SHOPS}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Buccaneer's Den
\par \tab \tab \tab Vesper\page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 HOW TO RAISE VIRTUES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HONESTY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab 
Not cheating a shop which one is able (Reagents for instance)
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 COMPASSION}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Allow good foe to flee from combat 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi720\li1440\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin1440\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Flee from combat with good foe 
\par Give to beggar
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 VALOR}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Victory over evil foe
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 JUSTICE}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab 
Not cheating a shop which one is able (Reagents for instance)
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab \tab Flee from combat with good foe
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SACRIFICE\tab \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Give all of one's gold to a beggar
\par \tab \tab \tab Give blood at a Healing shop.
\par \tab \tab \tab Death of character in party
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HONOR}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab 
Not cheating a shop which one is able (Reagents for instance)
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab \tab Find any of the eight runes
\par \tab \tab \tab Find any of the eight stones
\par \tab \tab \tab Find the Book, Bell or Candle
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SPIRITUALITY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Visit Seer in Lord British's Castle
\par \tab \tab \tab Meditate in any of the eight Shrines
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HUMILTY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Answer "Humility Question" in town humbly
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 HOW TO LOWER VIRTUES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\insrsid3228609 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HONESTY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Get any of the chests in a town
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Cheating at a shop which one is able (Reagents for instance)
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 COMPASSION}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Attacking a good or NPC character (town folk for instance)
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par VALOR}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Lose in combat with an evil foe
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab \tab Fleeing from an evil foe when party is not wounded
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 JUSTICE}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Get any of the chests in a town
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Cheating at a shop which one is able (Reagents for instance)
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SACRIFICE\tab \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Fleeing from an evil foe when party is not wounded
\par \tab \tab \tab Not giving blood to Healing shop
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HONOR}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Get any of the chests in a town
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-2160\li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Cheating at a shop which one is able (Reagents for instance)
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li2160\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin2160\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 Attacking a good or NPC character (town folk for instance)
\par 
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\nooverflow\faroman\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 SPIRITUALITY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Not meditating in a shrine once it has been entered
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 HUMILTY}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab \tab Answer "Humility Question" in town incorrectly
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 LATITUDE AND LONGITUDE COORDINATES
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 CASTLES
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 EMPATH ABBEY \tab \tab \tab DC BM
\par LORD BRITISH \tab \tab \tab \tab GL FG
\par SERPENTS HOLD \tab \tab \tab PB JC
\par THE LYCAEUM \tab \tab \tab GL NK
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 DUNGEON}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par COVETOUS\tab \tab \tab \tab BL JM
\par DESTARD\tab \tab \tab \tab KI El
\par DECEIT\tab \tab \tab \tab EJ PA
\par DESPISE\tab \tab \tab \tab ED FL
\par GREAT ABYSS\tab \tab \tab \tab OJ OJ
\par HYTHLOTHE\tab \tab \tab \tab PA OP
\par SHAME\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab GG DK
\par WRONG\tab \tab \tab \tab BE HO
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par GOODIES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par BELL\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab NA LA 
\par BLACK STONE\tab \tab \tab \tab IF OA 
\par BOOK\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab AG AG 
\par CANDLE\tab \tab \tab \tab AB BG
\par MANDRAKE ROOT\tab \tab \tab DG LG 
\par MYSTIC ARMOUR\tab \tab \tab AE BG 
\par MYSTIC WEAPONS\tab \tab \tab AP AI
\par NIGHTSHADE\tab \tab \tab \tab CM MN 
\par SILVER HORN\tab \tab \tab \tab KN CN 
\par SKULL\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab PF MF
\par TELESCOPE\tab \tab \tab \tab AC BG
\par WHITE STONE\tab \tab \tab \tab FA FA
\par WHEEL\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab NH GA
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 TOWNS}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par BRITAIN\tab \tab \tab \tab GK FC
\par JHELOM\tab \tab \tab \tab NO CE
\par MAGINCIA\tab \tab \tab \tab KJ LL
\par MINOC\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab BE JP
\par MOONGLOW\tab \tab \tab \tab IH OI
\par SKARA BRAE\tab \tab \tab \tab IA BG
\par TRINSIC\tab \tab \tab \tab LI GK
\par YEW\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab CL DK
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 VILLAGES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par BUCCANEER'S DEN\tab \tab \tab JO II
\par COVE\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab FK II
\par VESPER\tab \tab \tab \tab DL MJ
\par PAWS\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab JB GC
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid3228609 
\par SHRINES}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 
\par HONESTY\tab \tab \tab \tab EC OJ
\par COMPASSION\tab \tab \tab \tab FM IA
\par VALOR\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab OF CE
\par JUSTICE\tab \tab \tab \tab AL EJ
\par SACRIFICE\tab \tab \tab \tab CN MN
\par HONOR\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab MP FB
\par SPIRITUALITY\tab \tab \tab \tab BD KG
\par HUMILITY\tab \tab \tab \tab NI OH
\par 
\par 
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs24\insrsid3228609 FINAL SOLUTION
\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid3228609 \tab Once you complete the eighth level of the Stygian Abyss you will be taken to the Chamber of the Codex. Here y
ou will be asked a number of questions. The answers to those questions are listed below, in the order they should be given.
\par 
\par VERAMOCOR
\par HONESTY
\par COMPASSION
\par VALOR
\par JUSTICE
\par SACRIFICE
\par HONOR
\par SPIRITUALITY
\par HUMILITY
\par TRUTH
\par LOVE
\par COURAGE
\par INFINITY
\par }{\*\themedata 504b030414000600080000002100828abc13fa0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cb6ac3301045f785fe83d0b6d8
72ba28a5d8cea249777d2cd20f18e4b12d6a8f843409c9df77ecb850ba082d74231062ce997b55ae8fe3a00e1893f354e9555e6885647de3a8abf4fbee29bbd7
2a3150038327acf409935ed7d757e5ee14302999a654e99e393c18936c8f23a4dc072479697d1c81e51a3b13c07e4087e6b628ee8cf5c4489cf1c4d075f92a0b
44d7a07a83c82f308ac7b0a0f0fbf90c2480980b58abc733615aa2d210c2e02cb04430076a7ee833dfb6ce62e3ed7e14693e8317d8cd0433bf5c60f53fea2fe7
065bd80facb647e9e25c7fc421fd2ddb526b2e9373fed4bb902e182e97b7b461e6bfad3f010000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c00000
00360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4fc7060abb08
84a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b63095120f88d94fbc
52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462a1a82fe353
bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468
656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b4b0d592c9c
070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b4757e8d3f7
29e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b03041400060008000000210090525937a10600006d1b0000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65
312e786d6cec594d6f1b4518be23f11f467b6f6327761a4775aad8b11b48d346b15bd4e3783dde9d7a766735334eea1b6a8f484888823850891b0704546a252e
e5d7048aa048fd0bbc33b36bcfc41b92b41154d05ce29d7ddeef8f7967f6eab5fb0943074448cad36650bd5c091049433ea469d40c6ef7bb97d60224154e8798
f19434832991c1b58df7dfbb8ad7554c1282803e95ebb819c44a65eb4b4b3284652c2ff38ca4f06ec44582153c8a686928f021f04dd8d272a5b2ba94609a0628
c509b0dde56a7a88323ca6444dd0add1888624d828847418484a95d40b21133d2d82e4947b86c625198eab1a28a7b2cd043ac0ac1980d8213fec93fb2a400c4b
052f9a41c5fc054b1b5797f07a4ec4d409b40e5dd7fce57439c170bc6c648a6830135aedd61a57b666fc0d80a9455ca7d36977aa337e0680c3100cb6bab83c6b
ddb56aabe0e980eccf45deed4abd52f3f10eff95059d1bad56abdec875b14c0dc8feac2de0d72aabb5cd650f6f40165f5fc0d75a9bedf6aa8737208b5f5dc077
af34566b3ede806246d3f1025a07b4dbcdb9cf2023ceb64be16b005fabe4f0390ab26196645ac488a7ea94944bf03d2eba80d37886154d919a66648443c8ed36
4e0682622d07af13ecbcb14ba15c58d222910c05cd5433f830c35027737eaf9e7fffeaf95374f4e0d9d1839f8e1e3e3c7af0a365e4516de33472a95e7efbd99f
8f3f467f3cfde6e5a32fcaf1d2c5fffac327bffcfc793910aa68aece8b2f9ffcf6ecc98baf3efdfdbb4725f04d81072ebc4f1322d14d7288f679028619aff89a
9381381f453fc6d4a5d84c238953aca594f0efa8d843df9c629647c7d3a3457c0fde11d045ca80d727f73c857bb198285a2279274e3ce02ee7acc545a91776b4
2cc7cdfd491a950b171317b78ff14199ec364ebdf876261974d1222d3dc3db31f1d4dc6338553822295148bfe363424aacbb4ba9e7d75d1a0a2ef948a1bb14b5
302d75499f0ebc6c9a136dd304e2322db319e2edf966f70e6a715666f51639f0915015989528df27cc73e3753c51382963d9c709731d7e03abb84cc9de54842e
ae2315443a228ca3ce90485946734b80bd4ed0773034aed2b0efb269e22385a2e3329e3730e72e728b8fdb314eb2326c8fa6b18bfd408e214531dae3aa0cbecb
fd0ad1cf10079c9e18ee3bb0bfbb024eef06b769e4a9344f10fd6622742ca1637b1d38a1e9dfb56346a11fdb1cb8b8760c0df0c5d78f4b32eb6d6dc49bb02795
55c2f6b1f67b12ee78d36d7331a46f7fcfddc293748f409a2f6e3cef5aeebb961bfce75bee49f57cd6463befadd076f5dc606763332927a70dca23ca584f4d19
b921cdac2c61bb18766151939ba323999d9fb2187ee6edddc345021b1a24b8fa88aab817e30ce6ec6aa0994432671d49947109c73cb35cca5be3615657f69058
d7c707db162456bb7c689757f472714a98b1319b4e644ea485a015cde0acc256aee44cc1ecd71156d54a9d595ad5a8663a9e276d66328472d134589c7913e610
04d30b7879150eef5a349c4f302343ed77bb0517613151b8c810c9180f491e236df7628caa264845ae98eb01c89d9218e923df295e73a43534db3790769620b9
e26a27882ba2f726512a32781e255dbec7ca91a56e71b2141d3683467db91ea01067cd6004475bf899641075a9473fcc22b8350a95b0697f6a319b2a9f47b351
18e61741152e2dacdf170cf6fa4026a4dac232b6a9615ee529c0522dc9eabf5c07b75e940136d35f438b953548867f4d0bf0a31f5a321a9150b9c17656b4efec
63de4af94411d18b878768c026621f43f875aa823d432ae186c27404fd00b76adadbe695df9cf3a273efb20cceae6396c5386fb7ba448b4ab67053c7331dcc93
a31ed856aabb31eefca69892bf2053dc34fe9f99a2f713b8305819ea088470c72b30d2f5da0cb85031872e94c534ec0a981f4cef806c819b59780d490537cde6
bf2007fabfad39cbc394359cfbd43e8d90a0b01fa95810b2076dc964df29ccaaf9de6559b29c91c928475d9959b507e480b0beee81ab7a6f0f500ca96eba49de
060cee78fef9cf79050d223de4b8f5e6f590d9de6b6be09f9e7c6c3183517e1f36034de1ff998a25bbaaa537e4c5deeb1aa25fccc7ac5a511520ccd90a1a79d9
bfa60ae7dc6a6dc75ab078b95e2807515cb4181667035106d73ef0c142414e845484cc7eaed01b6a9fef436f45f0d9413383b481acbe64070fa41ba45d1cc0e0
64176d326956d6b5f9e8a4bd566cd6173ce9cee41e73b6d6ec2cf13ea7b367c3992fceabc58b7476ee61cfd776ed445743648f97282c8d8af38c098cf9dee57e
8ae2837b10e82db8e69f30254d32c117268161f4ec993a80e2b7120de9c65f000000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000
270000007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88
d0add40384e4350d363f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567
914b284d262452282e3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f
1f165dfe514173d9850528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d0014000600080000002100828abc13fa0000001c020000130000
0000000000000000000000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b00
0000000000000000000000002b0100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000000000000000
0000000000140200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d001400060008000000210090525937a10600006d1b00
001600000000000000000000000000d10200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000
001b0100002700000000000000000000000000a60900007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000a10a00000000}
{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d
617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d6169
6e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363
656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}
{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax267\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef1\lsdunhideuseddef1\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;
\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;
\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;
\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority59 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Revision;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;
\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;}}{\*\datastore 010500000200000018000000
4d73786d6c322e534158584d4c5265616465722e352e3000000000000000000000060000
d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
fffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff
ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff52006f006f007400200045006e00740072007900000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000016000500ffffffffffffffffffffffffec69d9888b8b3d4c859eaf6cd158be0f000000000000000000000000a059
59ecc725cc01feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000105000000000000}}